{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9420\viewh14660\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 The Jordan B. Peterson Podcast 54 - Aspen Ideas Festival: From the Barricades of the Culture Wars\
\ulnone [11:23] \'93Just because you 
\i read
\i0  something doesn\'92t mean you have a 
\i right
\i0  to it. You have to understand it, and understanding something that\'92s deep means a deep transformation, means you have to 
\i live it. 
\i0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 The Jordan B. Peterson Podcast 44 - Lafayette College - The Mill Series\
\ulnone [29:49] \'93And the way that totalitarian states develop is that people give up their right to be, the right to exist with their own thoughts. They lie! That\'92s what happens, is that individuals sacrifice their own souls to the dictates of the state. And then everything goes badly sideways. And it\'92s like, you think how much evidence for that do we need? Y\'92know, you\'92re looking at a quarter of a billion deaths. It\'92s like, isn\'92t that enough? \
	Well the people that I read were profound\'97Victor Frankel is a good example for beginners if you wanna read about this sort of thing, wrote a book called 
\i Man\'92s Search for Meaning
\i0 . And Frankel, and also Solzhenitsyn, and a variety of other commentators as well who 
\i really
\i0  looked into what happened both in Nazi Germany and the Communist states. 
\b Their conclusion was universal: that the lies and tyranny of the state are aided and abetted by the moral sacrifice of the individual.
\b0  It\'92s not top-down, the Nazis telling you what to do and you\'92re all innocent and obey. THAT\'92S not how it works\'97is you falsify your being, bit by bit, and you end up where you don\'92t wanna be. And that\'92s a 
\i bad
\i0  idea. \
	And if you\'92re interested in that there\'92s a great book called 
\i Ordinary Men
\i0 \'85you read that and you won\'92t be the same person afterwards, so I would beware of reading it. But it\'92s a story about these policemen in Germany. So they were middle-aged guys, y\'92know, and they grew up and were socialized before the Nazis came to power, so they were just your typical middle class policemen. And they were brought into Poland after the Nazis had marched through and charged with keeping order in the occupied state. And their commander knew that it was going to be brutal, because they were in wartime, and they regard the Jews for example as enemies, so there was going to be a fair bit of rounding up and all of that, and with all of what that implied.\
	And the commander told the policemen that they could go home if they wanted to, that they didn\'92t have to participate in this. And then, what 
\i Ordinary Men
\i0  does is document their transformation from ordinary policemen\'97the sort of people that you know\'97to guys who were taking naked, pregnant women out into the middle of fields and shooting them in the back of the head. And it documents ONE STEP AT A TIME how an ordinary person turns into someone like that. You think \'91well, we don\'92t want that sort of thing to happen anymore.\'92 Well, then you don\'92t wanna be that sort of person. That\'92s how it\'92s fixed. And if you\'92re not gonna be that sort of person 
\b then you don\'92t take the first steps. 
\b0 Cuz the first steps lead you down a pathway you don\'92t\'97at least in principle\'97you don\'92t wanna go. \
	So, I think part of what makes me combative, compared to someone like [Jonathan] Haidt, is I\'92ve spent years looking at the worst things there are to look at. And I\'92ve learned from that. And I\'92ve certainly learned things that I won\'92t do. And one of them is I won\'92t let the government regulate my speech. It\'92s a mistake. I don\'92t care what compassionate principles hypothetically motivate that move. It was 
\i unprecedented
\i0  in English common law, that move. It was all buried under this leftist \'93compassion\'94 which is mostly\'85 it\'92s mostly a lie. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul The Jordan B. Peterson Podcast 26 - The Phenomenology of the Divine\
\ulnone [1:26:15] \'93I\'92d also say if you\'92re interested in Jung, the best book to read is 
\i The Origins and History of Consciousness
\i0 . It\'92s the best intro to the Jungian world.\'94\
\
[1:44:40] \'93But that\'92s the Holy Grail, and the Holy Grail is lost\'97that\'92s the redemptive substance\'97and the knights of King Arthur go off to search for the Holy Grail. But they don\'92t know where to look! So, where do you look when you don\'92t know where to look? For something you need, desperately, but have lost? Well, each of the knights goes into the forest at the point that looks darkest to him. \
	And that\'92s Jungian psychoanalysis in a nutshell. It\'92s like: 
\b that which you fear and avoid. That which you hold in contempt. That which disgusts you and that you avoid. That\'92s the gateway to what you need to know. 
\b0 There\'92s nothing new-age about that, that\'92s for sure.\'94\ul \
\
\
The Jordan B. Peterson Podcast 25 - Walking With God: Noah and the Flood\ulnone \
[15:45] \'93You\'92ve got the fact that things aren\'92t exactly the way they should be at least gives you something to do, y\'92know, and maybe something 
\i great
\i0  to do, cuz there\'92s no shortage of suffering and trouble that besets the world that you could conceivably ameliorate in some way. And the utility of that and the intrinsic meaning of that is self-evident. \
	So it also makes me curious about nihilism, for example, and despair, because\'97I understand those emotions, I understand them deeply, and the intellectual mindset that goes along with it; but they just seem beside the point to me in some sense because there are so many things that need doing, that all you really have to do is open your eyes and look at them, and then decide that you\'92re actually going to do something about them. \
	And you might think \'91well, what\'92s within my scope of influence is so trivial that it\'92s not worth doing.\'92 It\'92s like, it won\'92t stay trivial for long if you do it! Not at all. And I don\'92t think it\'92s trivial to begin with. I don\'92t think that any\'97I really don\'92t believe that anything done right is trivial. And my experience in my life has been that anything I actually did paid off. It didn\'92t pay off necessarily in the way that I expected it to pay off, that\'92s a whole different story. But if it was 
\i genuine
\i0  
\i commitment to do something
\i0 , even if it went sideways and the outcome was really something other than what I expected, the net consequence over time was nothing but good.\'94\
\
[20:28] \'93The issue is that there are times in your life where you know that the thing that you\'92re saying is not true. It\'92s a deception. It\'92s a lie of some sort, and you\'92re using it to manipulate yourself or another person or the world. And you\'92re also fully possessed of the idea that you can get away with it. And there\'92s a satanic arrogance about that. In fact, that 
\i is
\i0  the archetypal arrogance that\'92s portrayed in the mythological character of Satan, because Satan is precisely the archetype of the element of the mind that believes that it can twist and bend the structure of reality without paying the price for that. \
	And you can\'92t imagine anything that\'92s more arrogant than that because really, do you really think that you can twist the structure of reality and that that\'92s going to work out for you without it snapping back, is so obvious that that can\'92t work, that everyone knows it.\'94\
\
[23:11] \'93And the warning in the Flood story is: don\'92t [feed with no gratitude and no attempt to replenish what it is that you\'92re taking from] for very long. Because things will happen that are so awful that you cannot possibly imagine it. And that\'92ll happen to you personally, and it\'92ll happen to your family, and it\'92ll happen to your community, and it\'92s happened to people over and over throughout history. \
	And it\'92s quite interesting, y\'92know, it\'92s very soon after the story of Cain and Abel, when you see evil enter the world in the story of Adam and Eve; along with self-consciousness and evil there is the ability\'97that\'92s the knowledge of good and evil\'97that\'92s the ability to 
\b hurt other people
\b0 \'97self-consciously, to 
\i know
\i0  what you\'92re doing, and then of course instantly Cain takes that to the absolute extreme and he uses that capacity to 
\b destroy, really, what he loves best. 
\b0 He gets as close as a human being can to destroying the divine ideal. Because, of course, his brother is Abel and Abel is favored by God, and Cain destroys him. \
	Which, Cain tells God at the end of that episode that his punishment is more than he can bear. And I think the reason for that is: 
\b where are you once you destroy your own ideal? 
\b0 What\'92s left for you? There\'92s nowhere to go. There\'92s no up. And when there\'92s no up, there\'92s a lot of down. \
	And, y\'92know, there\'92s an idea put forth very nicely in Milton\'92s 
\i Paradise Lost
\i0 , when he was describing, from a psychological perspective, essentially what hell is. And hell is\'97you\'92re in hell to the degree that you\'92re distant from the good. That might be a good way of thinking about it. And if you destroy your own ideal, which you do with jealousy and resentment and the desire to pull down people who you would like to be, let\'92s say, then you end up in a situation that\'92s indistinguishable from hell. \
	And the way the Biblical story unfolds is, well, it\'92s Cain\'85and then it\'92s the flood. And so Cain adopts this mode of being that\'92s antithetical to being itself, at least to positive being itself\'97he does it voluntarily, he does it knowing full well what he\'92s doing\'97and the net consequence of this, that it ripples through the entire social structure, is that God stands back and says: This whole thing has got [sic] so bad the only thing we can do is wipe it to the ground. And that is no joke. That\'92s 
\i exactly 
\i0 how things work.\'94\
\
[2:05:30] \'93I see this [intellectual arrogance] for example happening in the United States in particular because the last time I went down there, for example, I had friends down there and some of those friends are very, very smart people. And some of them were talking about the Trump voters. And they were talking about the Trump voters with contempt. And I thought \'91you better watch that. Cuz that\'92s 50% of the damn population. And it might be convenient to think that they\'92re stupid and beneath you, but it\'92s not conducive to a civil state, and there\'92s no evidence that it\'92s true, because there isn\'92t a straight line between intelligent and wise.\'92\'94\
\
\
\ul The Jordan B. Peterson Podcast 24 - The Psychology of the Flood\ulnone \
[1:06:51] \'93I\'92m trying to formulate a sentence, so I try to think up a good sentence that\'92s nailing what I\'92m trying to formulate, and then I try to pick it apart. And I do that a bunch of ways; I take the sentence and I put it on another page and then I write, like, ten different variants of the sentence and see if I can get a better variant. And then I try to think of ways that it\'92s a stupid sentence to see if I can, y\'92know, put a pry bar underneath it and loosen it up. \
	And if I can\'92t do anything\'97if I can\'92t manage that then I keep the sentence that I\'92ve got. And I do that with ten sentences in a paragraph and I make sure the sentences are all arranged properly in the paragraph the same way, by rewriting a bunch of different variants of it, trying to get the word right and the phrase right and the sentence right and the sentence order right and the paragraph order right. And I can tell when it\'92s right 
\i enough 
\i0 because I can\'92t make it any better. \
	That doesn\'92t mean it\'92s 
\i right
\i0 , it just means *I* can\'92t improve it. And so I get to the point where if I\'92m writing a paragraph and I write a variant, and I can\'92t tell if the variant is any better and it might be worse, then I\'92m done. I\'92ve hit the limit of my intellectual capacity, and it\'92s time to move on. \
\
\
\ul The Jordan B. Peterson Podcast 23 - Cain and Abel: The Hostile Brothers\ulnone \
[22:04] \'93This is one of mankind\'92s fundamental discoveries. Sometimes things do not go well. That\'92s self-evident. But here\'92s the rub: sometimes when things are not going well, it\'92s precisely that which is most valued that is the cause. Why? It\'92s because the world is revealed through the template of your values. \
	If the world you are seeing is not the world you want therefore, it\'92s time to examine your values. It\'92s time to rid yourself of your current presuppositions.\'94  \
\
\
\ul The Jordan B. Peterson Podcast 22 - Adam and Eve: Self-Consciousness, Evil, and Death\ulnone \
[1:29:18] \'93The other thing about marriage\'97this is really worth knowing too\'97is that\'97I learned this in part by reading Jung\'97it\'92s like what do you do when you get married? That\'92s easy. You take someone who\'92s just as useless and horrible as you are, and then you shackle yourself to them. And then you say: \'91we\'92re not runnin\'92 away. No matter what happens.\'92 Yeah, well that\'92s perfect because then you don\'92t get to run away. \
	And the thing is, is like if you can run away you can\'92t tell each other the truth. Because if you tell someone the truth about you and they don\'92t run away, they weren\'92t listening. And so if you don\'92t have someone around that can\'92t run away you can\'92t tell them the truth. And so that\'92s part of the purpose of the marriage. It\'92s like okay okay, I\'92ll bet on you, you bet on me, it\'92s a losing bet, we both know that. But given our current circumstances we\'92re unlikely to find anyone better, that\'92s for sure. \
	There are two things that come off of that. One is, y\'92know people are waiting around to find Mr. and Mrs. Right and it\'92s like, here\'92s something to think about, man. If you went to a party and you found Mr. Right, and he looked at you and didn\'92t run away screaming, that would indicate that he 
\i wasn\'92t
\i0  Mr. Right 
\b at all
\b0 . It\'92s like the old Nietzschian joke: if someone loves you, that should immediately disenchant you with them.  \
\
\
\ul The Jordan B. Peterson Podcast 04 - Religion, Myth, Science, Truth\ulnone \
[2:07:58] \'93The shadow is rooted in hell. And you think, well, that\'92s a nice metaphor. It\'92s like, don\'92t be so sure it\'92s a metaphor. It\'92s not exactly a metaphor. I mean I can elaborate on that a little bit. \
	If you walk down Bloor Street (?) and you watch, you can see people in hell with no problem. They\'92re not only the people who are completely lost\'97the homeless\'97but they\'92re the homeless that you cannot look at. And the reason you can\'92t look at them is they find your act of mirroring their state of existence intolerable. It will instantly enrage them. And that\'92s because they\'92re in chaos, they\'92re in the underworld, but they\'92re in a particular suburb of the underworld. And that little suburb, that\'92s hell. \
	And you think \'91well, is it eternal?\'92 Depends on what you mean. It\'92s been around a long time. It\'92s been around a 
\i long
\i0  time. And it\'92s really deep. And there\'92s another weird thing about hell, which is: if you\'92re in it, no matter how bad it is, there\'92s some stupid thing you can do to make it worse. And that\'92s why it\'92s bottomless.\'94\ul \
\
\
The Jordan B. Peterson Podcast 21 - God and the Hierarchy of Authority\ulnone \
[2:40:20] \'93One of the things I\'92ve really tried to puzzle out, and it\'92s not like I believe this, right, I\'92m just telling you where the edges of my thinking has been going, is that you have this crazy alliance between the feminists and the radical Islamists that I just do not get. It\'92s like why aren\'92t they protesting non-stop about Saudi Arabia is just completely beyond me. Like I do NOT understand it in the least. And I wonder too, I just wonder\'97and this is the Freudian me\'97is that is there an attraction that\'92s emerging among the female radicals for that totalitarian male dominance that they\'92ve chased out of the West? And I mean that\'92s a hell of a thing to think but after all, I am psychoanalytically minded and I DO think things like that. [laughter]\
	Because I can just see no rational reason for it. The only other rational reason is that \'91well, the West needs to fall, and the enemy of my enemy is my friend.\'92 Yeah, so that could be the case. But I\'92m not going to shake my suspicion about this unconscious balancing because as the demand for egalitarianism and the eradication of masculinity accelerates, there\'92s going to be a longing in the unconscious for the precise opposite of that. The more you scream for equality, the more your unconscious is going to admire dominance.\'94 \
\
\
\ul Jordan Peterson on the Channel 4 Controversy and Philosophy of "How to be in the World"\ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E6qBxn_hFDQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E6qBxn_hFDQ}}\
[1:46:27] \'93Cuz one of the old metaphysical problems is \'91why would God allow evil into the world\'92. I think well maybe God didn\'92t allow evil into the world; maybe God allowed the possibility of evil into the world\'97that\'92s different. And maybe the world with the possibility of evil is actually a better world than the world without the possibility of evil. \
	It\'92s something like that, y\'92know, in that maybe a man is better when he is a dangerous man who is being good than he would be if we was just a good man who wasn\'92t capable of being dangerous. And I believe that because the best men that I have ever met are very dangerous men. You don\'92t mess with them.\'94\
Indian dude: \'93So do you think that someone without teeth, or without the options to sin, can be good?\'94\
Peterson: \'93See that\'92s a real theological question, right? Cuz the question you\'92re asking is\'97and this is tied up with the idea of free will and evil\'97\'91can a person who doesn\'92t have the option to be evil be good? And I would say no.\'94\
\
[1:51:07] \'93One of the most amazing things I discovered this year, or stumbled upon, was I was puzzling over a line in the New Testament which I\'92ve always been curious about because it never sat right with me: \'91the meek shall inherit the earth.\'92 \'85and I found out that the word \'91meek\'92 either doesn\'92t mean now what it meant when people first translated the text, or it was a mistranslation. Either way. Because \'91meek\'92 sounds like \'91powerless\'92 and \'91harmless\'92 or something like that. But what \'91meek\'92 actually means is it\'92s the derivation of the word, it\'92s the translation of a word that meant something more like \'91
\b those who have swords and know how to use them, but keep them sheathed.
\b0 \'92 \
	And I thought \'91oh yes, that\'92s exactly it.\'92 Those who have swords and know how to use them but choose to keep them sheathed\'85 \'91shall inherit the world.\'92 It\'92s like 
\i yes.
\i0  Exactly right.\'94 \ul \
\
\
The Art of Manliness Podcast #335: Exploring Archetypes with Jordan B. Peterson\ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.artofmanliness.com/2017/08/31/podcast-335-using-power-myths-live-flourishing-life/"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://www.artofmanliness.com/2017/08/31/podcast-335-using-power-myths-live-flourishing-life/}}\
*Note: just minutes before this monologue, Jordan Peterson makes a distinction between his use of the terms masculine/feminine versus male/female; they are not always equivalent in the analysis of archetypal stories. \
	\'93If you look at the movie 
\i Sleeping Beauty
\i0 , for example. So the female\'97the feminine\'97is unconscious in that movie, that\'92s Sleeping Beauty. And she\'92s unconscious because she couldn\'92t tolerate the trauma of puberty and sexual development, essentially. And the reason for that is because her parents overprotected her, right? \
	If you remember at the beginning of 
\i Sleeping Beauty
\i0 , the king and queen have been waiting a long time for their daughter to decide not to invite Maleficent to the christening. And Maleficent is the evil queen, right, she\'92s the negative element of nature and the world, and if you don\'92t invite the negative\'97if you don\'92t 
\i allow 
\i0 the negative element of life and the world into your child\'92s environment then you overprotect them and make them weak, and then when they grow up and face the inevitable confrontations of adolescence and adulthood, they deeply desire to remain unconscious, or to become unconscious again. That can manifest itself in suicidal ideation, for example. \
	So Sleeping Beauty falls unconscious when she\'92s pricked, when blood emerges when she\'92s pricked, and it\'92s just after she, y\'92know, she falls in love na\'efvely with the prince, and then that collapses. So she can\'92t tolerate the catastrophe of her existence so she falls unconscious. And something has to rescue her. And it\'92s the hero, it\'92s the prince. \
	Now, you can read that as an external prince because in some degree, in a woman\'92s life, the adult feminine in her is awakened by the man that she chooses. So you can read it as a love story, but you can also read it as a story of individual development because what the woman is going to use to call 
\i herself
\i0  out of unconsciousness is her own masculine propensity to develop her consciousness to move forthright out into the world. I mean these archetypal stories can be read at multiple levels of analysis simultaneously, they apply across multiple domains.\'94\
\
[16:00] \'93Those experiences in life where the fundamental constants that keep you oriented shift, and then you fall into the unknown, that\'92s the underworld of mythology. You fall into the unknown. And part of that underworld would be hell. Now hell is the part of the underworld that emerges when you\'92re embittered by your failure and you turn towards the desire to destroy. And everyone who thinks about this can appreciate that, because most people\'97at least if they reflect on their own experience\'97can understand full well the negative psychological consequences of falling flat on your face. It\'92s not only that you fail, it\'92s that you become bitter and turn agains the world. That\'92s a trip to hell for all intents and purposes.\'94\
\
[47:25] \'93When young men mature and become men, it isn\'92t power that accrues to them, it\'92s competence. And the problem with the narrative that grips our culture at the moment is that we fail to make a distinction between power and competence. Power is just that I can hurt you and therefore I dominate. Competence is that I have status because I am offering to myself and to other people something that they voluntarily regard as of value. And my invitation to young men is to become competent, to forego power. Power is the tactic used by the incompetent to gain status. Competence is the tool used by the morally oriented to accrue authority and do good things in the world. Well that\'92s a noble call. And the only way out of the tragedy of existence is to follow the noble call.\'94 \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul Jordan Peterson on the Illuminati\ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XnIFlD5Zvs8"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XnIFlD5Zvs8}}\
[7:40] \'93Life isn\'92t a game, it\'92s a set of games. And the rule is: never sacrifice victory across the set of games for victory in one game. Right? And that\'92s what it means to play properly. You wanna play so that people keep inviting you to play. Cuz that\'92s how you win\'97you win by being invited to play the largest possible array of games. And the way you do that is by manifesting the fact that you can play in a reciprocal manner every time you play even if there\'92s victory at stake. And that\'92s what makes you successful across time. \
\
[8:40] \'93And to act morally is not to win today\'92s contest at the expense of the rest of possible contests. And again, I don\'92t see that as something that\'92s arbitrary. It\'92s not relativistic. There\'92s an absolute moral stance there, and everyone recognizes it. And I also think it\'92s the key to success. \
	And I would also say it\'92s very much akin in a strange way, like the person who is the master at being invited to play the largest possible number of games is also the same person that goes out forthrightly to conquer the unknown before it presents itself as the enemy at the door. They\'92re the same thing.\'94\
\
[10:08] \'93There\'92s a recognition there in the image that the person who\'92s most dominant\'97who has the most authority\'97is the one who\'92s voluntarily accepted the suffering that\'92s a part of being. And that\'92s what that picture represents. It\'92s like the authority holds [a cross] and says \'91This is what you have to accept.\'92 And that transfixes the viewer, because of the fact that it\'92s true. \
	Think about it this way: do you like brave people, or do you like cowards? Well that\'92s pretty straightforward. And what\'92s the ultimate act of bravery? It\'92s to come to terms with the fact that you\'92re mortal and limited, and to live forthrightly regardless. Well obviously, that\'92s what is at the core of what\'92s admirable.\'94\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul Joe Rogan Experience #1006 Jordan Peterson & Bret Weinstein (Sep 1, 2017)\ulnone \
[37:50] \'93Get it into your head that you have the capacity for great evil. And stop targeting\'97stop assuming that that\'92s something manifesting itself only in the people that you disagree with politically. Take responsibility for that, and try to put your life together.\'94\
\
[1:45:30] \'93What Marx observed was that capital tended to accumulate in the hands of fewer and fewer people. And he said that\'92s a flaw of the capitalist system. THAT\'92S wrong. It\'92s not a flaw of the capitalist system. It is a 
\i feature
\i0  of every single system of production that we know of no matter who set it up and how it operates. And so now we have a problem, because what happens is as soon as you set up a domain of production\'97and you need to because you need things to be produced\'97then you instantly produce a competition, and the spoils go disproportionately to a tiny percentage of people. \
	So then, so what? So the rest of the people starve, or the system becomes unstable because everybody\'92s mad. It\'92s like, that\'92s a big problem. Kay, so how do human beings fix that? Well the first thing we did was diversify the number of productive games. So you don\'92t get to be an NBA basketball star, okay, but you can run a podcast. It\'92s a completely different competitive landscape. So we can fractionate the production landscape, and then people who aren\'92t successful in one domain might be successful in others; that\'92s human creativity.\'94\
\
\
\ul Peterson Conversation/BlackLivesMatter\ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gakoqQz6aUc"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gakoqQz6aUc}}\
[5:38] \'93Actually I\'92d just as soon we got rid of the whole hate speech thing because I think it\'92s unbelievably dangerous to drive people who hate underground 
\b and not let them talk.
\b0  That\'92s partly because you don\'92t know where they are, you don\'92t know what they\'92re doing, and 
\b you can\'92t refute them.\'94
\b0  \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul The Joe Rogan Experience #958 - Jordan Peterson\ulnone \
[1:41:35] \'93So imagine that the normal world of mankind is inside that dominance hierarchy where everything is going well, because nothing abnormal is happening and you\'92re getting what you need and you want and your conscious knowledge suffices. Right? Okay, but then something tilts, and that structure no longer works. Where do you end up? You end up in the underworld. That\'92s when your partner of 20 years has a long-term affair, and you find out about it. It\'92s like you thought you knew where you were\'85but you didn\'92t. And now that you found out, you don\'92t know where you are. 
\b When you don\'92t know where you are, you\'92re in the underworld.
\b0  \
	Right, and that\'92s where the unconscious forces play: those are the gods, that\'92s why there\'92s gods in the underworld. And people go to the underworld all the time. It\'92s chaos and fear and depression, and hopelessness and imaginativeness, it\'92s everything\'97it\'92s chaos. It\'92s terrifying 
\i and
\i0  promising, because dragons have gold. Because the unknown has two things, just like the future. It\'92s like \'91look out, it\'92ll do you in\'92 and \'91look out, it offers everything to you.\'92 That\'92s the underworld.\'94\
\
[2:03:15] \'93We\'92re very complicated creatures, and we\'92re run by all sorts of very strange things down there in the unconscious, y\'92know, and the Greeks thought we were the playthings of the gods because we serve lust, we serve thirst, we serve hunger, we serve 
\i rage
\i0 . And y\'92know those things all transcend us. So that\'92s why they were gods. Y\'92know, rage\'97that\'92s the war god. Well, why is it a god? Well, it exists forever. It exists in all people. It takes them over and directs their behavior. It\'92s a god. \
	Well, you can quibble about the details: \'91no it\'92s not a god.\'92 Ok fine, it\'92s a psychological force.\'94\
Rogan: \'93Right, people get hung up on that one word.\'94\
Peterson: \'93Well they don\'92t really\'85 we have to think about it functionally to some degree, we have to think about what that idea means. We\'92ve had that idea forever; it isn\'92t just some superstition. Jesus, you gotta be more sophisticated than that, man! And this is partly what I think is unfortunate about the new atheists, let\'92s say: they don\'92t take the damn problem seriously. They think \'91well, Christianity, that\'92s just a bunch of superstition.\'92 It\'92s like: really?? No. Sorry. That\'92s just not deep enough man. \
\
[2:24:46] \'93So then we ask people: \'91Ok, so here think about this real carefully. Take all your faults and inadequacies, and your hatred for life, all of that. And imagine that gets the upper hand. And then think about where you could be in three to five years.\'92 Everyone knows, eh? \
	Some people know they\'92d be a street person, some people know they\'92d be an alcoholic, some people know they\'92d be a prostitute or a drug addict. Like everybody\'92s got their own little hell they could descend into, with fair degree of rapidity and a fair bit of enjoyment. And people 
\i know 
\i0 that, and so I say well, delineate that out too, so you know where you\'92re headed when you fall off the path. And so then you\'92re running away, and running towards\'85it\'92s like yes, that\'92s heaven and hell. And you need it. And they\'92re real. They\'92re as real as anything you can\'85 It depends on what you mean by \'91real\'92 I suppose, but\'85 they\'92re as real as you make them, how about that. And people can make hell pretty real.\'94\
\
[2:41:00] \'93I know for many people someone who\'92s rich is someone who has more money than them. Right? Which is one of the things I really find funny about the radical left protests on the campuses, it\'92s like \'91down with the 1%\'92. It\'92s like \'91hey, sunshine, you\'92re part of the 1%. You\'92re actually a baby 1/10th of 1% or maybe 1/100th of 1%, or you\'92re just angry because you\'92re not there 
\i yet
\i0 . But you will be when you\'92re 40. And you know it and so does everybody else. And now instead of regarding yourself properly as a fledgling member of the elite, you wanna have it both ways. You wanna be fledgling member of the elite, and champion of the underprivileged. So how narcissistic can you get? You wanna have all the benefits of having all the benefits, and you want all the benefits of having none of the benefits. Because just  all the benefits isn\'92t enough for you.\'94\
\
\
\
\
==from Wikiquote==\
source: unknown\
\'93The basic totalitarian claim: What I know is everything that needs to be known, and if only it were manifest in the world, the world would become a utopia. I also think that that\'92s the core idea behind the Tower of Babel. It\'92s the idea that we can build a structure that makes the transcendent unnecessary.\'94\
\
"What happens in the story of Adam and Eve is that when people become self conscious, they get thrown out of paradise and then they're in history. And history is a place where there's pain in child birth, and where you're dominated by your mate, and where you have to toil like mad like no other animal because you're aware of your future. You have to work and sacrifice the joys of the present for the future constantly, and you know that you're going to die. And you have all that weight on you. How could anything be more true than that? Unless you're naive beyond comprehension. There's something that's echoed about your life in that representation. We\'92re such strange creatures because we don't really fit into being in some sense, and that's what's expressed in the notion of The Fall." \
\
"The notion that every single human being, regardless of their peculiarities and their strangenesses, and sins, and crimes, and all of that - has something divine in them that needs to be regarded with respect, plays an integral role, at least an analogous role, in the creation of habitable order out of chaos. It's a magnificent, remarkable, and crazy idea. Yet, we developed it and I do firmly believe that it sits at the base of our legal system. I think it is the cornerstone of our legal system. That's the notion that everyone is equal before God. That's such a strange idea. It's very difficult to understand how anybody could have ever come up with that idea, because the manifold differences between people are so obvious and so evident that you could say the natural way of viewing someone, or human beings, is in this extremely hierarchical manner where some people are contemptible and easily brushed off as pointless and pathological and without value whatsoever, and all the power accrues to a certain tiny aristocratic minority at the top, but if you look at the way that the idea of individual sovereignty developed, it is clear that it unfolded over thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of years, where it became something that was fixed in the imagination that each individual had something of transcendent value about them, and man I can tell you - we dispense with that idea at our serious peril. And if you're going to take that idea seriously - and you do because you act it out, because otherwise you wouldn't be law abiding citizens. It's shared by anyone who acts in a civilized manner - the question is: why in the world do you believe it? Assuming that you believe what you act out - which I think is a really good way of fundamentally defining belief."\
\
"The proper path of life is to take the tradition and spirit that is associated with consciousness as such and to act it out in your own personal life in a way that is analogous with the way Christ acted it out in his life. What that means in part is the acceptance of the tragic preconditions of existence. That's partly: betrayal by friends and by family and by the state, it's partly punishment for sins that you did not commit (the arbitrary nature of justice), and the fact of finitude. Your duty, and the way to set things right in the cosmos is to accept all those details as necessary preconditions for being and to act virtuously despite all that. That's a very, very powerful idea."\
\
"If you are not capable of cruelty, then you are absolutely a victim of anyone who is. For those who are exceedingly agreeable, there is a part of them crying out for the incorporation of the monster within them, which is what gives them strength of character and self respect, because it is impossible to respect yourself until you grow teeth. And if you grow teeth, you realize that you're somewhat dangerous, or seriously dangerous. Then you might be more willing to demand that you treat yourself with respect and that other people do the same thing. That doesn't mean that being cruel is better than not being cruel. 
\b What it means is that being able to be cruel, and then not being cruel is better than not being able to be cruel, because in the first case you're nothing but weak and naive, and in the second case you're dangerous, but you have it under control.
\b0  If you're competent at fighting, it actually decreases the probability that you're going to have to fight, because when someone pushes you you'll be able to respond with confidence, and with any luck a reasonable show of confidence, which is a show of dominance, will be enough to make the bully back off."\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf0 "I know that the evidence for genuine religious experience is incontrovertible, but it's not  explicable. So I don't want to explain it away... I want to pull back from that and leave it as a fact and a mystery, and then we're going to look at this from a rational perspective, and say that the initial formulation of the idea of God was an attempt to abstract out the ideal, and to consider it as an abstraction outside its instantiation. And that's good enough. It's an amazing thing if it's true. But I don't want to throw the baby out with the bathwater."\
\
Ideology is a parasite on religious substructures. A religious narrative has a particular set of characteristics. It's very balanced. So for example there's the feminist idea of the patriarchy. Well the religious idea of society has a patriarchal notion built into it. That would be the dying king. The once great dying king. In a religious story, there's the natural world, the chaotic world - there's a positive element and a negative element. Then there's the social world - there's the wise king and the tyrannical king. Then there's the individual world - that's the adversary and the hero. There's always a positive and a negative at each level. And it stops it from being an over simplification."\
\
"There's a transformation to some degree in the Prophetic Tradition, where there is a spirit that rises above the law, but this transformation really takes place in the New Testament. The Old Testament is prohibition, and the New Testament is, 'here's the good things you do once you're more than merely prohibiting yourself from impulsive sin. There's a positive good to be accomplished, not just a negative to be avoided. You have to look around you within your direct sphere of influence, and you fix the things that announce themselves to be in direct need of repair. And those are often small things. They can start with things as simple as: your room. Put it in order. It's not important that you put your room in order necessarily, what is important is that you learn to distinguish between chaos and order, and that you learn to be able to act in a manner that produces order. In most households there's a hundred things that could be done to make it less hideous and horrible. So practicing that is both a useful form of meditation, but it's also a divine act.""Women are attracted to men's ability to generate, to be productive, and to share. These qualities transcend wealth, which can disappear."\
\
Maps of Meaning digest version: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.cogsci.ecs.soton.ac.uk/cgi/psyc/newpsy?10.077"}}{\fldrslt http://www.cogsci.ecs.soton.ac.uk/cgi/psyc/newpsy?10.077}}\
}